in this video we are going to install
the reverse osmosis system by completing
the tubing connections before the tubing
connections can be made the protective
plugs on the fifth stage filter and
stage one Inlet must be removed
attach the clear tubing to the faucet
adapter by pushing the clear tubing into
the Quick Connect fitting gently pull on
the tubing to ensure a secure connection
attach the clear tubing to the
stage-five filter by pushing the tubing
into the Quick Connect fitting already
located in the filter housing
this connection uses a metal compression
nut fitting plastic sleeve and insert
that was included with the needle valve
installation before connecting the
tubing to the feedwater adapter you will
need to assemble the compression nut
fitting slide the compression nut
through the red tubing followed by the
plastic sleeve then place the insert
inside the tubing connect the tubing
with the assembled compression nut
fitting to the needle valve adapter hand
tighten the compression nut and use an
adjustable wrench to ensure a secure
connection now attach the red tubing to
the stage-1 pre-filter input by pushing
the red tubing into the 90 degree elbow
Quick Connect fitting
the drain line is pre-installed on the
system uncoil the black tubing and
remove the red end cap now connect the
black tubing by inserting it into the
drain saddle and test the connection
attach the yellow tubing to the fifth
stage filters t-fitting by pushing the
tubing into the Quick Connect fitting
please note if the unit comes with the
UV light connect the yellow tubing to
the T fitting on the UV as the stage
five filter will not have a T fitting
next we are going to assemble the tank
to complete installation apply six to
eight wraps of teflon tape to the tanks
metal stem then screw the tank ball
valve onto the tank stem you can now
connect the yellow tubing to the tank
ball valve the four gallon tank comes
pre charged please do not add air or
release air from the tank during
installation if you want to connect
purified water from the reverse osmosis
system to your ice maker you will need a
tee fitting extra quarter inch tubing
long enough to go from the RO system to
your ice maker and a shutoff valve
system startup turn on the feed water
slowly from your cold water supply turn
on the needle valve counter clockwise to
allow the cold water supply to enter the
system check for water drips at the
connections turn on the tanks ball valve
to allow water into the tank
the tanks valve is on when the valve
handle is parallel in the same direction
with the valves outlet check for any
water drips at the connections when the
tank is full the RO will shut off
automatically please allow the tank to
fill completely and drain once or twice
before usage drain the tank by lifting
the faucet lever up into the lock
position
lastly allow the system to run while
cleaning up tools and your work area
please continue to monitor for water
drips make sure there is no water coming
out at the connection joints fittings
housings and tubing connections
congratulations you have successfully
installed the reverse osmosis system